Updates to CONTRIBUTING guide (#4919)
tock/tock: .github/CONTRIBUTING.md

[lru]: https://github.com/tock/tock/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc

## Licensing

> All contributions to Tock are expected to be dual-licensed under the

Author: ```suggestion
Contributions to Tock are typically dual-licensed under the
```

Author: @jrvanwhy Does this solve the concern?

Reviewer: That weakens the statement a lot. IMO we should either keep it as-is (draw a hard line on Apache-2.0/MIT dual-licensed, and treat anything else as an exception) or make it clear that non-Apache-2.0/MIT code must be clearly marked.

[Apache 2.0](../LICENSE-APACHE) and [MIT](../LICENSE-MIT) licenses. Copyrights

> in Tock projects are retained by their contributors. For full details, see the

Reviewer: The vast majority of contributions are dual-licensed, but not all are (see e.g. boards/apollo3/ambiq/, which is BSD licensed).

In practice, I think the policy is more like "they should be Apache-2.0/MIT dual-licensed OR the license must clearly be marked/documented as different". Do we want to go into that level of nuance here?

I think this is fine as-is, to be clear, but I want to make sure there aren't any misunderstandings.

Author: ~I made a separate comment with a proposed change~

Johnathan noted that change was a net negative, so I didn't include it.

Author: Okay, given that exceptions are stated in the TRD to be rare and require non-trivial effort, I think we should leave this as is. I'll leave this comment unresolved for now in case someone else disagrees.

[Tock Reference Document on Licensing and Copyrights](../doc/reference/trd4-legal.md)

Whenever possible, files should begin with a license header stating its license status. CI
enforces this.

    // Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 or the MIT License.
    // SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 OR MIT
    // Copyright Tock Contributors 2026.

> 

Reviewer: Perhaps the sentence linking to the legal TRD should be at the end of this section? It really expands upon everything, not just the first sentence.

```suggestion
in Tock projects are retained by their contributors. Whenever possible, files
should begin with a license header stating its license status. CI enforces
this.

    // Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 or the MIT License.
    // SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 OR MIT
    // Copyright Tock Contributors 2026.

For full details, see the
[Tock Reference Document on Licensing and Copyrights](../doc/reference/trd4-legal.md).
```

description, including which AI tool was used, what portion of the patch was
created by AI, and how the AI-generated code was reviewed.

Contributors remain responsible for ensuring that their contributions are
compatible with the applicable licenses, do not infringe on any copyright

> claims, and maintain proper attribution.

Reviewer 2: We don't specify that contributors are required to ensure their contributions do not infringe on any copyright claims, unless AI is involved. However, that is implied by the word "remain".

Is the intent this only applies when any AI is used? This is my same question as before, where "remain" implies this is documented before, but it isn't.

Author: I've modified the sentence in a separate comment.

> Contributors remain responsible for ensuring that their contributions are
> compatible with the applicable licenses, do not infringe on any copyright
> claims, and maintain proper attribution.

Author: ```suggestion
Contributors are responsible for ensuring that their contributions are compatible with the applicable licenses and maintain proper attribution.
```

Author: @bradjc Would this improve it sufficiently?
